Implement the climwip weighting scheme in a recipe and diagnostic (#1648)
ESMValGroup/ESMValTool: doc/sphinx/source/recipes/recipe_climwip.rst

.. _recipe_climwip:

ClimWIP: independence & performance weighting
=============================================

Overview
--------

This recipe calculates weights based on combined performance and independence metrics. These weights can be used in subsequent diagnostics.
Reference implementation based on https://github.com/lukasbrunner/ClimWIP

Available recipes and diagnostics
---------------------------------

Recipes are stored in esmvaltool/recipes/

    * ``recipe_climwip.yml``

Diagnostics are stored in esmvaltool/diag_scripts/weighting/

    * ``climwip.py``: Compute weights for each input dataset
    * ``weighted_temperature_graph.py``: Show the difference between weighted and non-weighted temperature anomalies.

User settings in recipe
-----------------------

1. Script ``climwip.py``

  *Required settings for script*
    * ``sigma_performance``: shape parameter weights calculation (determined offline)
    * ``sigma_independence``: shape parameter for weights calculation (determined offline)

>     * ``obs_data``: list of project names to specify which are the the observational data. The rest is assumed to be model data.

Reviewer: The formatting of this block looks very different on readthedocs than the other blocks (click the 'details' button behind the readthedocs build to see the preview). I think this looks actually nicer, would it be possible to also format the other blocks like this? If not, it would be best to use a consistent style for all blocks.

Reviewer 2: Wow, that preview option is super useful! Thanks!! 
I didn't notice the layout had changed, I'll look into it.

Reviewer 2: Ah, my local build preview is different from the version on github, that's why I didn't notice. Now I'll have to wait to see the GH actions build.

Reviewer 2: Done!

  *Required settings for variables*

    * This script takes multiple variables as input as long as they're available for all models
    * ``start_year``: provide the period for which to compute performance and independence.
    * ``end_year``: provide the period for which to compute performance and independence.
    * ``mip``: typically Amon
    * ``preprocessor``: e.g. climwip_summer_mean
    * ``additional_datasets``: provide a list of model data for performance calculation.

  *Required settings for preprocessor*

    * Different combinations of preprocessor functions can be used, but the end result should always be aggregated over the time dimension, i.e. the input for the diagnostic script should be 2d (lat/lon).

  *Optional settings for preprocessor*

    * ``extract_region`` or ``extract_shape`` can be used to crop the input data.
    * ``extract_season`` can be used to focus on a single season.
    * different climate statistics can be used to calculate mean or (detrended) std_dev.

2. Script ``weighted_temperature_graph.py``

  *Required settings for script*

    * ``ancestors``: must include weights from previous diagnostic

>     * ``weights``: the filename of the weights: 'weights.yml'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * ``weights``: the filename of the weights: 'weights_combined.nc'
```
